We added sorting and we added filtering filtering was particularly easy and as you saw from a data table
perspective it was only about assigning the filter property and the data source.
Now let's work on page a nation that's alost important thing you often need on tables page anation is
all about showing how many rows you display and allowing the user to cycle between pages to switch between
the well rows for each page.
Engelen material gives you a special component you can use for page anation if you check out the page
anation docs you'll learn how to set up this component and how to connect that to a data table and the
computer I'm talking about is actually added below the table not inside of it.
It's not part of the table and you can actually use it in the pendant of the table.
But here it's the Matt page nature component.
So let's simply copy this component here.
And in the past training component HVM file are placed below my math table component.
Now the map page in nature here has a page sized property which in this case is bound to a number 10.
This term is how many items should be displayed on a given page.
Also the to one so that we can quickly see a result and page size options to find out which steps we
want to present to the user.
Besides the forward and backward buttons so to jump to page 5 10 and 20 maybe we also assign a local
reference your by which we can grab access to the page and 8 or later.
So this is deep page and later.
And since it's a separate component we need to add an ORDER to the material module.
So they're at the top all import.
Matt page Nadr module and I'll wrap this and add it to both imports and exports.
Now with that added here we can go back to their past training component.
This should now work and we should already be able to see this component to be honest if we quickly
do log in here.
We can see the page anation component below the table.
As I said it looks nice with the table but it works in dependently of that and you can find out more
about pagination and how it works independent of their table by clicking on the page name or article.
This will explain what it actually returns you and how you may use it.
Now back to the table though and back to our application we got the page NHL here and we can switch
between pages but we will get no data so this won't really work.
Let's make sure that it does work for that we need to connect it to the data table.
By the way keep in mind the page size options is bound by a property binding as a page size.
So we're passing a real number and a real array here.
But back to connecting it to connect that we have to go to the typescript file.
There we have to get access to the page and eighter and then set up a connection to data source page
and atre Let's get access First we get X in the same way we got access to the sorting directive.
We use view child and select Matt page and later like this.
We could also use the local reference we placed on it but I'll use a different approach so I'll get
rid of it.
So here I'm using Map page and Aitor all stored in a property named page and later though the name is
up to you it doesn't matter.
And the type will be met page and enter.
Now just as with sorting in Engy after you in it we assign this to this data source page and later this
will connect the two and Anglo material will do the rest.
Behind the scenes let's see this in action.
We now connected it.
So let's quickly log in and here you see I can't do anything.
Now let's go back to the exercises and do two exercises since I find a page size of one.
We should get page nation already after only doing two exercises.
So if you go to paths exercises we indeed only see one row.
If my thoughts are here we still filter across all pages by the way so that's really cool but we only
see one road but we can go for it to see the second page and backward and that's all bandaged for us.
The styling and the behavior.
If I set the items per page size to 5 while then we see obviously 5 items so does allow us to override
the default.
We set up here
so this is the page and Atre you the find a page size here and you can find which options you want to
present to the user if any here for example that you can switch to 5 10 or 20 IPs per page we can of
course also add one here.
It is an array.
You simply add items to it and you can check the page nature by accessing it with the child and then
assigning it to the page and enter property of the data source and that is all this was sorting filtering
and using Page anation with the data table and as you saw these are some patterns you probably have
to remember or look up from time to time but in the end it's not difficult at all.